javascript is mailnly used for client side programming and to change web page at clientside dynamically


advantages of cucumber over selenium:
1.plugin in cucumber works faster than plugin in selenium

selenium2.0:
here both selenium rc and selenium webdriver are combined into single tool selenium2.0

selenium3.0:
selenium3.0 is the latest version of selenium. selenium3.0 introduced two bete versions beta1 and beta2

beta1 updates                                               beta2 updates
1.minimum java version is 8+                                1.System property webdriver.firefox.marionette now forces the server in marionette or legacy firefox driver mode, ignoring any related Desired Capability
2.supports firefox via mozilla's geckodriver                2.Grid fixes NPE’s on registration when -browser not specified
3.support for edge is provided by MS and supports safari    3.Update GeckoDriver –port argument in all bindings
on MacOS via apple's own safari driver.

3.FINDING AN ELEMENT USING SELENIUM:
every object or control in webpage is called as webelement. these webelements in webpage are located by 
id
name
xpath
linktext
partiallinktext
css 
tag
attribute 

4.TEST TYPES SUPPORTED BY SELENIUM:
functional testing 
regression testing
For post release validation with continuous integration automation tool used is
jenkins
hudson
quick build
cruiseCont

5. ASSERTION IN SELENIUM AND TYPES OF ASSERTIONS IN SELENIUM:
assertion is used as verification point. it is used to conform that the result is occuring as expected.
types of assertions in selenium are
assert
verify
waitFor

6.USE OF XPATH:
it is used to identify an webelement in webpage. it is also used to identify dynamic elements

7. DIFFERENCE BETWEEN SINGLE SLASH AND DOUBLE SLASH IN XPATH:
     single slash start selection from the document node.
     single slash is used to create absolute path expression
    double slash start selection matching anywhere in the document
     double slash enables relative path expression.
8. TECHNICAL CHALLENGES WITH SELENIUM:
1. it supports only web based applications
2.it doesnot support bitmap comparisona
3. no vendor support for tool, compared to tools like hp uft
4.no object repository concept in selenium because of that maintaining of objects is difficult
5.for reporting related capabilities, we have to depend on third party.

9. DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TYPEKEYS AND TYPE COMMANDS
  typekeys() will trigger javascript event whereas type() doesn't.  Type key populates the value attribute using JavaScript whereas .typekeys() emulates like actual user typing.

10. DIFFERENCE BETWEEN ASSERT AND VERIFY COMMANDS:
assert command is used to check whether the webelement is on the page or not.The test will stop on the step failed, if the asserted element is not available
verify command will check whether the webelement is on the page if it is not then the test will carry on executing.
11. JUNIT ANNOTATIONS AND DIFFERENT TYPES OF ANNOTATIONS:
A special form of syntactic meta data can be added to java source code, which is known as annotations.
